us officials say they are closer to a
deal to PO fighting in Gaza in exchange
for the release of many more hostages
held by Hamas that's as pressure in
Israel Mounds against the government of
prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu on
Saturday Israeli police clashed with
protesters during a anti-government
rally in Tel Aviv protesters called for
new elections along with the immediate
release of all hostages still held in
Gaza
DW correspondent Tanya kma is standing
by in Jerusalem hello Tanya Israelis uh
broadly backed their government's
handling of the war on Hamas in the
first weeks after the October 7th
attacks now we seeing massive protests
outside the prime minister's home what
has
changed well I think it's quite a fast
moving situation but also a complex uh
picture here uh as you said the the
country is still very much United uh uh
behind you know a majority of Israelis
support the war they support uh the
armed forces and to a certain extent
also uh their leadership but the longer
this goes on the more questions are
being asked to what are the scenarios
for the day after and one very very big
and very important question here is the
issue of the hostages um that you know
that that's what we are seeing here in
the past weeks there have been
every Saturday uh tens of thousands of
people coming out to demand the release
to to demand the the government a new uh
hostage deal to um release the remaining
uh over 136 hostages that are believed
to be still in Gaza to uh free them and
to uh and we have more groups now
joining uh uh those protest there the
anti- Netanyahu uh protesters that have
been um around but they haven't been
coming out so much we've seen them we
have some protesters that are protesting
against the war these are smaller
protests but also protesters that are
now calling for new elections and that
is also according to Pauls what a
majority of Israelis want to see that
after the war ends there should be new
elections and yes it seems like in the
face of the growing criticism prime
minister Netanyahu has remained defiant
but how long can he afford to stay the
course well I think he seems to be quite
unfaced as you said by the uh criticism
uh he says uh he wants to achieve the
goals that he has set to remove Hamas
from from power and also that the war
continues has to continue as long as it
takes but he is under more pressure uh
internationally by his allies the United
States they want to see a scaling down
of the intensity of the war
um a more Aid uh a more protection of
the civilian population in Gaza but
domestically as well there's the issue
that he needs to bring those hostages
home that is very much on the Public's
mind his popularity has dropped
dramatically um in polls and a lot of
people have criticized him because he
didn't take so far responsibility for
the security failures uh during the
terror attack for the terror attacks uh
on o oober 7th you you started touching
on it a bit but uh tell us more about
this uh there reports that Israel and
Hamas are close to a deal to Halt the
fighting in return for the release of
hostages well there have been a lot of
reports here in the past days uh but you
know these are all talks that are
happening behind closed doors so it's
very hard uh to see where they are at at
the moment so there are reports now that
there's a four-way meeting supposed to
take take place uh in uh in France uh um
from the uh you know this heads of the C
the mosad and the Kat Egyptian U
mediators uh trying to hammer out a new
deal that would be a phase deal where
first some of the hostages would be
released uh uh in exchange for
Palestinian prisoners held in Israeli uh
prisons and also a longer period of a
temporary ceasefire but of course Hamas
has always said that they want to see a
full stop of the hostilities and a full
withdrawal of the Israeli Army from Gaza
so it's still to see how this will play
out right DW correspondent Tanya kma
thank
you